Add v24.1.4 Release Notes (#18865)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/_includes/releases/v24.1/v24.1.4.md

## v24.1.4

Release Date: August 29, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-1-4-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- URLs in the following SQL statements are now sanitized of any secrets before being written to [unredacted logs]({% link v24.1/configure-logs.md %}#redact-logs). [#127360][#127360]

> - [`ALTER BACKUP SCHEDULE`]({% link v24.1/alter-backup.md %})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`ALTER BACKUP SCHEDULE`]({% link v24.1/alter-backup-schedule.md %})
```

- [`ALTER BACKUP`]({% link v24.1/alter-backup.md %})

> - [`ALTER CHANGEFEED SET sink`]({% link v24.1/alter-changefeed.md %})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`ALTER CHANGEFEED SET sink`]({% link v24.1/alter-changefeed.md %}#set-options-on-a-changefeed)
```

- [`BACKUP`]({% link v24.1/backup.md %})
- [`COPY`]({% link v24.1/copy-from.md %})
- [`CREATE CHANGEFEED`]({% link v24.1/create-changefeed.md %})
- [`CREATE EXTERNAL CONNECTION`]({% link v24.1/create-external-connection.md %})
- [`CREATE SCHEDULE FOR BACKUP`]({% link v24.1/create-schedule-for-backup.md %})
- [`CREATE SCHEDULE FOR CHANGEFEED`]({% link v24.1/create-schedule-for-changefeed.md %})
- [`EXPORT`]({% link v24.1/export.md %})
- [`IMPORT INTO`]({% link v24.1/import-into.md %})
- [`RESTORE`]({% link v24.1/restore.md %})
- [`SHOW BACKUPS`]({% link v24.1/show-backup.md %})
- [`SHOW BACKUP`]({% link v24.1/show-backup.md %})

<h3 id="v24-1-4-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Added a new Kafka [changefeed sink]({% link v24.1/changefeed-sinks.md %}) that uses the [`franz-go` library](https://github.com/twmb/franz-go) and CockroachDB's `batching_sink` implementation. The new Kafka sink can be enabled with the `changefeed.new_kafka_sink_enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}), which is disabled by default. [#128018][#128018]

> - The new Kafka sink, enabled with [`changefeed.new_kafka_sink_enabled`]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}), as well as the PubSub sink, now display notices indicating the topics that a Changefeed will emit to. [#128333][#128333]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The new Kafka sink, enabled with [`changefeed.new_kafka_sink_enabled`]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}), as well as the Google Cloud Pub/Sub sink, now display notices indicating the topics that a changefeed will emit to. [#128333][#128333]
```

<h3 id="v24-1-4-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

> - Added an option to prevent the [`GRANT OPTION`]({% link v24.1/show-grants.md %}#privilege-grants) from being given to the owner of an object by default. The new `sql.auth.grant_option_for_owner.enabled` cluster setting defaults to `TRUE`, retaining the existing behavior, and when it is set to `FALSE`, the `GRANT OPTION` is not implicitly given to an object's owner. The owner still has all privileges on an object except the ability to grant privileges to other users. [#126959][#126959]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added a new `sql.auth.grant_option_for_owner.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}) to prevent the [`GRANT OPTION`]({% link v24.1/show-grants.md %}#privilege-grants) from being given to the owner of an object by default. The cluster setting defaults to `true`, retaining the existing behavior; when it is set to `false`, the `GRANT OPTION` is not implicitly given to an object's owner. The owner will still have all privileges on an object except the ability to grant privileges to other users. [#126959][#126959]
```

<h3 id="v24-1-4-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

> - A `--locality-file` flag is now available on the [`cockroach start`]({% link v24.1/cockroach-start.md %}) and [`cockroach start-single-node`]({% link v24.1/cockroach-start-single-node.md %}) commands. This provides the option of specifing node [locality]({% link v24.1/cockroach-start.md %}#locality) (typically a `region` value) as a file, as an alternative to specifying this using the [`--locality` flag]({% link v24.1/cockroach-start.md %}#locality). [#127475][#127475]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A `--locality-file` flag is now available on the [`cockroach start`]({% link v24.1/cockroach-start.md %}) and [`cockroach start-single-node`]({% link v24.1/cockroach-start-single-node.md %}) commands. This allows specifying node [locality]({% link v24.1/cockroach-start.md %}#locality) (typically a `region` value) as a file, rather than by using the [`--locality` flag]({% link v24.1/cockroach-start.md %}#locality). [#127475][#127475]
```

<h3 id="v24-1-4-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

> - The [databases]({% link v24.1/ui-databases-page.md %}) and [tables]({% link v24.1/ui-databases-page.md %}#tables-view) pages in the [DB Console]({% link v24.1/ui-overview.md %}) now show a loading state while loading information for databases and tables, including size and range counts. [#127748][#127748]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [**Databases** and **Tables** pages]({% link v24.1/ui-databases-page.md %}) in the DB Console now show a loading state while loading information for databases and tables, including size and range counts. [#127748][#127748]
```

> - In the DB details page, the table name will no longer appear with quotes around the schema and table name. [#127766][#127766]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On the [**Databases** page]({% link v24.1/ui-databases-page.md %}) in the DB Console, table names will no longer appear with quotes around the schema and table name. [#127766][#127766]
```

<h3 id="v24-1-4-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

> - Fixed a bug introduced in v23.2.0 in which CockroachDB would hit an internal error when evaluating [`INSERT`s]({% link v24.1/insert.md %}) into [`REGIONAL BY ROW`]({% link v24.1/alter-table.md %}#set-the-table-locality-to-regional-by-row) tables where the source was a [`VALUES`]({% link v24.1/selection-queries.md %}#values-clause) clause with a single row and at least one boolean expression. [#127277][#127277]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug introduced in v23.2.0 in which CockroachDB would hit an internal error when evaluating [`INSERT`s]({% link v24.1/insert.md %}) into [`REGIONAL BY ROW`]({% link v24.1/alter-table.md %}#set-the-table-locality-to-regional-by-row) tables where the source was a [`VALUES`]({% link v24.1/selection-queries.md %}#values-clause) clause with a single row and at least one Boolean expression. [#127277][#127277]
```

> - Fixed a bug in which the [`DISCARD`]({% link v24.1/alter-table.md %}) statement was disallowed when the [session setting]({% link v24.1/session-variables.md %}#default-transaction-read-only) `default_transaction_read_only` was set to `on` [#127363][#127363]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug in which the [`DISCARD`]({% link v24.1/alter-table.md %}) statement was disallowed when the [session setting]({% link v24.1/session-variables.md %}#default-transaction-read-only) `default_transaction_read_only` was set to `on`. [#127363][#127363]
```

- In the [DB Console event log]({% link v24.1/ui-overview-dashboard.md %}#events-panel), [`ALTER ROLE`]({% link v24.1/alter-role.md %}) events now display correctly even when no [role options]({% link v24.1/alter-role.md %}#role-options) are included in the `ALTER ROLE` statement. [#126568][#126568]

> - Fixed a formatting issue with the `sql_sequence_cached_node` value of the `serial_normalization` [setting]({% link v24.1/session-variables.md %}). This could lead to an error connecting to CockroachDB if this value was set as the default for `serial_normalization` via cluster setting [`sql.defaults.serial_normalization`]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-sql-defaults-serial-normalization). [#127673][#127673]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a formatting issue with the `sql_sequence_cached_node` value of the [`serial_normalization` session setting]({% link v24.1/session-variables.md %}). This could lead to an error connecting to CockroachDB if this value was set as the default for `serial_normalization` via the cluster setting [`sql.defaults.serial_normalization`]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-sql-defaults-serial-normalization). [#127673][#127673]
```

> - Dropping [ENUM]({% link v24.1/enum.md %})-type values which were referenced by [index expressions]({% link v24.1/expression-indexes.md %}) could fail with an error. [#127454][#127454]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where [dropping `ENUM` values]({% link v24.1/alter-type.md %}#drop-a-value-in-a-user-defined-type) that were referenced by [index expressions]({% link v23.2/expression-indexes.md %}) could fail with an error. [#127454][#127454]
```

> - Fixed a bug that caused a memory leak when executing SQL statements with [comments]({% link v24.1/comment-on.md %}), for example, `SELECT /* comment */ 1;`. Memory owned by a SQL session would continue to grow as these types of statements were executed. The memory would only be released when closing the [SQL session]({% link v24.1/show-sessions.md %}). This bug has been present since v23.1. [#127759][#127759]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that caused a memory leak when executing SQL statements with [comments]({% link v24.1/comment-on.md %}), for example, `SELECT /* comment */ 1;`. Memory owned by a SQL session would continue to grow as these types of statements were executed. The memory would only be released when closing the [SQL session]({% link v24.1/show-sessions.md %}). This bug had been present since v23.1. [#127759][#127759]
```

> - Addressed a bug where [schema changes]({% link v24.1/online-schema-changes.md %}) could hang if the lease rangefeed stopped receiving updates. [#127487][#127487]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where [schema changes]({% link v24.1/online-schema-changes.md %}) could hang if the lease rangefeed stopped receiving updates. [#127487][#127487]
```

> - Fixed small memory leaks that occur during [changefeed]({% link v24.1/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) creation. [#128018][#128018]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed small memory leaks that would occur during [changefeed]({% link v24.1/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) creation. [#128018][#128018]
```

> - Fixed a memory leak that could occur when specifying a non-existent virtual cluster name in the connection string. [#128106][#128106]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a memory leak that could occur when specifying a non-existent [virtual cluster]({% link v24.1/cluster-virtualization-overview.md %}) name in the connection string. [#128106][#128106]
```

- Fixed a bug where [`CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS`]({% link v24.1/create-index.md %}) would not correctly short-circuit if the given index already existed. [#128311][#128311]
- Fixed a bug in syntax validation, in which the `DESCENDING` clause was not allowed for non-terminal columns of an [inverted index]({% link v24.1/inverted-indexes.md %}). Only the last column of an inverted index should be prevented from being `DESCENDING`. This is now properly checked. [#128311][#128311]
- Fixed a bug where an [index]({% link v24.1/indexes.md %}) could store a column in the primary index if that column had a mixed-case name.  [#128311][#128311]
- Setting or dropping a default value on a [computed column]({% link v24.1/computed-columns.md %}) is now blocked, even for `NULL` defaults. Previously, setting or dropping a default value on a computed column was a no-op. [#128466][#128466]

> - Fixed a bug that could cause spurious user permission errors when multiple databases shared a common schema with a routine referencing a table. The bug has existed since v22.2 when [user-defined functions (UDFs)]({% link v24.1/user-defined-functions.md %}) were introduced. [#126412][#126412]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that could cause spurious user permission errors when multiple databases shared a common schema with a routine referencing a table. The bug had existed since v22.2 when [user-defined functions (UDFs)]({% link v24.1/user-defined-functions.md %}) were introduced. [#126412][#126412]
```

> - Fixed a bug where [`debug zip`]({% link v24.1/cockroach-debug-zip.md %}) returns an error while fetching unstructured/malformed logs. [#128605][#128605]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where [`debug zip`]({% link v24.1/cockroach-debug-zip.md %}) would return an error while fetching unstructured/malformed logs. [#128605][#128605]
```

- Fixed a bug where a hash-sharded [constraint]({% link v24.1/constraints.md %}) could not be created if it referred to columns that had a backslash in the name. [#128521][#128521]

> - Fixed a bug in which output of [`EXPLAIN (OPT, REDACT)`]({% link v24.1/explain.md %}) of various `CREATE ...` statements was not redacted. This bug has existed since `EXPLAIN (REDACT)` was introduced in v23.1 and affects the statements `EXPLAIN (OPT, REDACT) CREATE TABLE`, `EXPLAIN (OPT, REDACT) CREATE VIEW`, and `EXPLAIN (OPT, REDACT) CREATE FUNCTION`. [#128489][#128489]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug in which the output of [`EXPLAIN (OPT, REDACT)`]({% link v24.1/explain.md %}) for various `CREATE` statements was not redacted. This bug had existed since [`EXPLAIN (REDACT)`]({% link v24.1/explain.md %}#parameters) was introduced in v23.1 and affects the following statements:
  - `EXPLAIN (OPT, REDACT) CREATE TABLE`
  - `EXPLAIN (OPT, REDACT) CREATE VIEW`
  - `EXPLAIN (OPT, REDACT) CREATE FUNCTION` [#128489][#128489]
```
